---
title: 'Committee Feedback 2015-16'
date: '2016-07-31'
layout: layouts/page.njk
permalink: /committee/15-16/feedback/
---

This report summarizes feedback provided by members of the Imperial
College Dance Club regarding various aspects of the Club's operations
and events during the past year. The Dance Club distributed a survey to
its members to elicit their perspectives on how practices, competitions,
trainers, and other elements were organized and executed.

The report synthesizes member responses to key questions, highlighting
recurrent themes in their praise, criticisms and suggestions. Each
section addresses feedback pertaining to a specific aspect of the Club's
activities.

## Ballroom Practices

Overall, members find the ballroom practices useful, especially when
there is clear structure and focus areas provided. Some feel it becomes
too much like an additional technique class at times. Common suggestions
were for teachers to provide more individual feedback to couples and set
specific improvement tasks to work on before the next session. Members
praised the energy and attention to relevant aspects. However, more
discipline is needed in terms of punctuality. The space limitations mean
dividing into smaller groups is beneficial. But inactive members should
still participate in exercises when not dancing, rather than just
observing passively.

### Takeaways:

  - Continue providing structured practices with clear focus areas
  - Teachers should give more individual feedback and improvement
    prompts to each couple
  - Enforce punctuality and keep groups engaged even when not dancing
    their heat

## Latin Practices

Similar feedback for the Latin practices - members find it useful when
there are specific focus areas for each session. There is a desire for
teachers to share feedback and attention more evenly amongst couples,
rather than just the top dancers constantly. Peer feedback sessions were
highlighted as being particularly valuable. Timing late at night was
challenging for some members' energy levels and travel. As with
ballroom, more individualized feedback prompts would be appreciated to
give couples improvement goals to work towards each practice.

### Takeaways:

  - Maintain practices with defined focus areas
  - Distribute teacher attention and feedback evenly to all couples
  - Incorporate periodic peer feedback sessions
  - Consider earlier timing to optimize energy levels

## Feedback on Trainer Sessions

The trainer sessions are seen as beneficial for getting beginners
dancing more and facilitating mingling between teams. However,
communication and organization of the sessions needs significant
improvement - more notice is required, along with earlier scheduling and
assignment of trainers. Clarification is needed regarding the intended
outcomes - general tips versus detailed technique advice. There is
skepticism about abilities of some trainers. Potential ideas include
trainer-mentor schemes and limiting advice to easy presentation/posture
improvements.

### Takeaways:

  - Continue trainer sessions for exposure between teams
  - Enhance organization - communicate earlier, schedule efficiently,
    assign trainers
  - Clarify intended scope of trainer advice to beginners
  - Carefully vet trainers' abilities if offering technical guidance

## Practice Spaces

The JCR space is deemed sufficient by most but very tight for ballroom
sessions. Everyone should help with setup and not just arrive once
ready. The space should be fully utilised during sessions by respecting
lessons occurring and giving them a wide berth. Many members
unsurprisingly desire more space, with some specifically requesting
alternate studios or Ethos.

### Takeaways:

  - JCR space functions reasonably for current needs
  - Enforce common courtesy - assist with setup, respect ongoing lessons
  - Explore options for additional space if expansion needed

## Competitions - what members liked

Members praised the positive team atmosphere, supportive and helpful
conduct between members, and the prompt coach arrival. Good preparation
of beginner dancers was noticed. The new venue was favourably viewed.
Disliked aspects included crowded changing areas, inefficient food
storage creating mess, and poor timekeeping - arriving very early and
departing late at night.

### Takeaways:

  - Maintain terrific team morale and supportiveness between members
  - Continue thorough preparation of beginner dancers
  - Enforce tidiness and proper food storage/disposal
  - Aim for more efficient timing of arrival and departure

## Competitions - what could be improved

Key critiques were around late shoe orders affecting beginners'
preparation and some committee members not fulfilling duties, burdening
others. Communication of dates, costs and other logistics further in
advance would assist planning. Potential ideas included distributing a
competition guide detailing procedures, allowing optional earlier travel
for sufficient preparation, and exploring cheaper group accommodation
options.

### Takeaways:

  - Plan well in advance and communicate timelines/costs to members
    early
  - Ensure all committee members complete assigned responsibilities
  - Distribute a competition guide covering all policies and procedures
  - Consider earlier travel day option and group discount accommodation
