---
title: JCR Bookings
layout: layouts/page.njk
date: '2023-08-17'
permalink: /committee/jcr/
---

# Junior Common Room Bookings

This page is a record of the JCR booking cancellations that the Dance
Club has experienced over the years. It is intended to provide evidence
of the frequency and severity of the problem, and to help us make a case
for a more reliable booking system.

## 01 July 2014

JCR is booked for the dance club Mon-Wed after 6pm, Thu after 8pm, and
Sat all day. We were asked to leave by the security guards as they did
not have the booking on their system. When I went to speak with them,
they said that they needed direct confirmation of the booking.

## Sat 22 March 2014

We were "reminded" on Thu 20 March 2014 that the JCR has been booked by
College Conferences for that Saturday, when it later turned out that
they had never informed the Union about the booking. We eventually had
to move 8 hours of taught classes to EEE in the very last minute.
However, the JCR appeared empty throughout most of the day, with only a
couple of people using it occasionally.

## Saturday 31 January and Sunday 1 February 2015

On this instance, we were informed well in advance (when the block
bookings came through) that the JCR will be unavailable due to a
Conference booking. We exceptionally had to schedule classes at awkward
times due to the availability of rooms in the Union, only to find out
that the JCR was not being used the whole weekend by anyone.

## Sunday 10 May 2015 (Imperial Festival)

We were informed that we cannot use the JCR less than two weeks in
advance, after the term timetable had been prepared and lessons with our
teachers had been scheduled (and had to be moved).

## Saturday 20 June 2015 (Summer Ball)

Our JCR booking after 6pm was cancelled, although the date for the
Summer Ball had been advertised since the end of 2014 and we explicitly
asked Union Reception on 17 June whether our booking was still valid.

## Saturday 9 July 2015

Our JCR booking was cancelled at 16:30 on Friday 8 July, with the first
classes of a first-ever series of Summer-long courses taking place. We
eventually managed to hold the classes in the Union spaces. Had there
been no available space, however, we would have had to cancel them in
the very last minute. This would have sent a very negative initial
message to those wishing to attend the classes, potentially driving away
new members and putting the whole initiative at risk (for which raising
funds in advance is crucial).

## Saturday 16 April 2016

A representative of the College Events team called Giovanni came to the
JCR, said that the JCR has been booked for an external event, and asked
us to leave.

## Wednesday 6 November 2019

Informed at 6pm the day before of floor maintenance in the JCR.

> I am really sorry but the College has asked me to tell you that
> tomorrows dance session in the JCR and SCR can not longer take place.
> They are doing maintenance on the floor for two days and therefore
> unable to practice. We canâ€™t put you anywhere else on campus either.

Had to cancel sessions.

## 29 March 2022 and 30 March 2022

We noticed that the JCR will be closed 29th and 30th due to graduation.
Received no notice about booking cancellation for either day. Contacted
Deputy President (CSP) and were re-booked into EEE403A+B.

## 4 February 2022 to 6 February 2022

Informed on Friday, January 7th of booking cancellation for JCR. QTR and
union spaces unavailable. Offered Skempton 064A+B. Requested EEng
403A+B, but was unavailable. Booked Skempton 064A+B for Friday and EEng
407A+B for the weekend.

## 17 June 2022 to 19 June 2022

Notified at 4:30pm on 17th June of cancellation of our 6pm booking.
Offered Activity Space 2 and UDH for use without booking.

## Saturday 11 November and Sunday 12 November 2022

Informed on evening of Tuesday 8th that the JCR will be unavailable over
the weekend.

## Saturday 17 June 2023

We were informed on Friday 16th that the JCR had been booked by the
Alumni team. Not aware of this earlier due to systems not synchronising,
we were under the impression that we had the space booked. Moved session
to the UDH at last minute.

## Tuesday 15 August 2023 to Thursday 17 August 2023

Maintenance team arrived at same time as us (6pm) and started to set up.
Given no prior notice. Moved sessions into the Great Hall as thankfully
it was unoccupied and floor was clear.
