---
layout: layouts/page.njk
title: Beginners Team
date: 2023-07-21
permalink: /ballroom-and-latin-team/beginners/
---

# Beginners Team

Since dancing in a competitive manner is almost certainly new to you
this page should give you an idea of what to expect over the coming
year.

## How the Beginners Team works

The Beginners Team is always a very fun and lively group. The aim of the
team is to allow you to learn competitive dancing and enjoy some
competition experience while having fun along the way. In the past, IC
has always had a very successful Beginners Team, and this year should be
no exception.

The Beginners Team is by far the most important group of people to the
dance club and team as a whole as you represent not only the present but
also the future. IC takes great pride in returning home with trophies in
the beginners category at every competition. The main team of the future
is built by this year's beginners.

The team usually takes a few weeks to settle down as people decide on
their priorities and figure out their commitments for the year. As the
competition season draws near (usually from late November to March) you
will be partnered together so that you can concentrate on dancing with
the same person. Practising well with your partner is a crucial part of
the sport, so it's a good idea to get along with them\!

Hopefully the social outings throughout the year will help you to get to
know your partner, the rest of the beginners team and everyone on the
main team as well. There is nothing more important to the club than
group commitment and team spirit. Please don't be afraid to talk to and
ask more experience couples for help as well as advice.

## Practice

Most weeks, the beginners team has a one-hour Latin class and a one-hour
Ballroom class with our professional dance coaches Marika and Laura
respectively. Additionally, on Saturdays the Beginners Trainer will run
a two-hour supervised practice session to help you perfect your
technique.

## Competitions

*Main article: [Competitions](/pages/ballroom-and-latin/competitions)*

Competitions are at the heart of what all the practice is about, so
there is a lot to talk about. Throughout each competition day there are
a number of events which are broadly split into three parts:

  - the Ballroom events in the morning,
  - the Latin events in the afternoon,
  - the Team Match in the evening.

### Open Competitions

During the day, there are a number of open competitions, so called
because anybody is entitled to enter them, although there do exist some
restrictions on the combinations of events one may enter simply due to
the pressures of time.

Most competitions are split into four categories for each of Ballroom
and Latin: Beginners, Novice, Intermediate and Advanced. You will be
entered into the Beginners category.

This means that in the morning you will be dancing the Waltz and the
Quickstep, while in the afternoon you will be dancing the Cha-Cha and
the Jive, using routines that you will have been taught over the
preceding months.

To clear up some confusion about the terminology of the dancing world:
the programme may refer to the ballroom dances (i.e. Waltz, Quickstep,
Tango, Foxtrot and Viennese Waltz) as either Ballroom, Modern or
sometimes Standard. This comes from the fact that the word 'ballroom'
technically encompasses the Latin dances as well, and is therefore a
great source of confusion. You will also learn that you can tell how
experienced a Latin dancer is by the number of times they say 'Cha' to
describe the style - a beginner might call it 'Cha-Cha-Cha' (as in the
rhythm that it has), a Novice might call it a 'Cha-Cha', and an
experienced dancer just 'Cha' - don't worry, they're all the same
thing\!

### Team Match

The Team Match takes place in the evening, preceded by a colourful
'Olympic Games' style walk-on; when each team enters the dance floor in
full costume behind their university banner and then battles against all
the other teams in each of the four team dances: Waltz, Quickstep,
Cha-Cha and Jive. This is danced in the same way as open events, with
couples going through several rounds to get through to the final. We
always need as much support as possible for the team match; shouting
'IC' and supporting the team is very much encouraged.

### Running order

Each couple is given a printed number, which the leader wears on his
back. (It is attached with safety pins, so remember to bring some\!) In
the first round everyone who has entered the event dances in a number of
heats, typically with 10-15 couples on the floor at once and up to 10
heats for each dance. (Waltz, Quickstep, etc.)

At the start of each dance, the compere will read out a list of couples
who have to dance on the floor in that heat. When your number is called
out, you gracefully walk onto the floor, prepare yourself, and once the
music plays you dance. Whilst you are dancing, the judges will be
looking out for couples that they would like to recall to the next
round, which is usually around three-quarters of the couples on the
floor.

After all the heats in the first round, usually another event will take
place giving you a chance to catch your breath and for the organisers to
sort out who has been recalled to the next round. The second round then
takes places exactly as the first, except that not everyone will be
recalled to dance.

This continues until only six couples remain, at which point the final
is held. As opposed to the preceding rounds, where judges only choose
whether or not to recall a couple, in the final the judges are asked to
rank the couples in order, and then a defined set of rules is used to
determine the overall placings of the couples considering all the
judges' opinions. Every one of the finalists will receive a medal at the
end of the day, and the best ones may receive a trophy.

### Costumes

Beginners have strict regulations as to what they are allowed to wear
during a competition in order to ensure that everyone is treated
equally. There are specific rules available on the Inter-Varsity Dance
Association website; in summary, you are not allowed to wear any clothes
that are specifically designed for dance competitions. Generally,
anything purchasable on the high street is acceptable.

#### Ballroom

Men usually wear a neutral shirt (black or white is best), a tie or even
a bow tie, and (loose) black dress trousers. If you would like to wear
something atop your shirt, a waistcoat is preferable to a jacket as it
does not restrict movement and prevents you getting too hot. Ladies wear
a long skirt and an appropriate top.

#### Latin

Men wear a pair of black trousers (usually the same ones you wore for
ballroom, especially at this level) and a tight-fitting long-sleeved
black shirt (white would do as well). Ladies wear a shorter skirt
(preferably above the knee to demonstrate your straight legs in the
Cha-Cha) and ideally something colourful to ensure you have the best
chance of being noticed by the judges in the first few rounds.

### Make-up

As for make-up, this is much more of a personal thing and cannot be
described in writing. The best thing to do is speak to the wardrobe
mistress or any of the more experienced members of the team and get
advice from them. If this is your first competition, make sure you ask
well in advance.
