---
title: Code of Conduct
date: '2022-09-01'
layout: layouts/page.njk
permalink: /code-of-conduct/
---

The **Imperial College Dance Club** (**ICDC**) is fully committed to
safeguarding and promoting the well-being of all its members to ensure a
positive and enjoyable experience. All those involved in ICDC
activities, whether they are involved as participants, coaches,
officials, or spectators, are therefore required to adhere to the
standards of behaviour set out within this Code of Conduct and to
support the mission of ICDC. This Code of Conduct has been developed to
ensure the highest possible standards of competition and sportsmanship
as well as promoting fairness, honesty, and positive behaviour in
relation to the conduct of all those representing ICDC, in accordance
with the Imperial College Union [Safe Spacy
Policy](https://www.imperialcollegeunion.org/your-union/policies/safe-space-policy)
and [Clubs, Societies and Projects
Policy](https://www.imperialcollegeunion.org/your-union/policies/clubs-societies-and-projects-policy).

## Our commitment

ICDC respect the rights, dignity and worth of every person involved in
its activities. ICDC is committed to team members enjoying dance sport
in an environment free from discrimination, intimidation, harassment
(sexual or otherwise) and abuse. ICDC believes that it is the
responsibility of all its members to challenge discriminatory behaviour
and promote equality of opportunity.

## Affiliations

ICDC is governed by the Imperial College Union. This Code of Conduct is
in addition to, and by no means replaces, the standards set by the
Imperial College Union.

ICDC is also affiliated with the Inter Varsity Dance Association (IVDA)
and the Southern Universities’ Dance Association (SUDA) and abides by
their regulations regarding their respective competitions.

## Standards of Behaviour

Members of ICDC are solely responsible for their conduct when
representing Imperial and the Dance Club. Members must therefore:

  - Respect the rights, dignity, and values of others;
  - Operate within the rules of the sport;
  - Treat facilities, staff and students at Imperial College and other
    institutions with respect and abide by any rules that may apply;
  - Respect the coaches and their teaching methods; in the event of an
    issue, to raise this with the Team Captain after the class;
  - Be aware of how their actions may be perceived by others;
  - Maintain high standards of personal behaviour at all times;
  - Conduct themselves in a reasonable manner relating to offensive
    language and temperament;
  - Refrain from any form of bullying or harassment of others.
    Harassment is any offensive conduct including, but not limited to,
    that based on a person\`s race, sex, gender identity, national
    origin, colour, disability, age, sexual orientation, marital status,
    religion, or any other status protected by law;
  - Respect the decisions of officials, making all appeals through the
    appropriate formal process and respecting the final decision;
  - Not condone, or allow to go unchallenged, any form of bullying,
    discrimination, or harassment (sexual or otherwise) if witnessed;
  - Refrain from the use of and involvement with illegal substances at
    all times;
  - Not act in an unlawful manner;
  - Not encourage or pressure others into acting against the code;
  - Understand the repercussions of any breaches of this Code of
    Conduct.

## Anti-Doping

Members of the Club must adhere to the requirements of the World
Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) code.

Please note that Team Members could potentially be subject to random
testing during competitions, particularly those competing at National
Level and above. Dancers caught with banned substances in their system
will be subject to disciplinary proceedings.

## Publications, Internet and Social Media

ICDC wishes to promote the club positively both within the University
and externally. It recognises that its publications, online, print, and
social media are important tools in recruiting new members and engaging
with alumni and potential sponsors. It is the responsibility of all ICDC
members to manage their personal social media presence responsibly. As
such, in publications of or in relation to the team, all members are
responsible for ensuring that they:

  - Refrain from publishing abusive or defamatory comments about other
    clubs, players, or judges and any controversial or potentially
    inflammatory subjects.

<!-- end list -->

  - Avoid hostile or harassing communications in any posts or other
    online communications.

## Social Events

Social functions form an important part of a club’s activities. ICDC is
committed to ensuring that all students are able and encouraged to
participate in student activities in an atmosphere free from
discrimination or fear. As such, ICDC will aim to organise a range of
social events that are as inclusive as possible. Members should be aware
that:

  - Participation in any social activity is completely optional.
  - They must not force others to participate in social events run by
    ICDC and can opt out without fear of undue pressure, reprisal, or
    any other form of discrimination at any point.

## Dancers of Other Universities

You are welcome to attend classes at ICDC even if you are a student from
another university that has a student dance sport society. However, we
will expect you to renounce from representing your original society at
competitions while you are taking classes at Imperial in favour of
representing Imperial instead, even if the competition regulations would
only allow you to do so to a lesser extent than if you were to represent
your original society.

## Breaches of the Code of Conduct

Breaches of the Code of Conduct will be dealt with informally by the
Team Captain in the first instance.

Should a serious breach or repeated breaches of the Code of Conduct be
identified, the Team Captain, in consultation with the Dance Club
President, may suspend a member from Team activities pending further
investigation. If deemed a serious breach of the code, it will be
escalated to the Union.

In the event that they are no longer permitted to be part of the Team,
they are required to return all equipment, documents and finances
belonging to the Club within 7 days. They will not be entitled to any
full or partial refund of annual subscriptions.

If the excluded or suspended member wishes to appeal the decision, that
appeal should be made to the President. An appeal as to the process of
exclusion, but not a further investigation into the facts, may be lodged
with the Union.  

## Welfare

ICDC takes the welfare of its members seriously. Any member of the Team
that has any concerns regarding their welfare or those of others
involved in Team or Club activities can discuss these, in confidence, by
emailing the [Team Captain](mailto:dancecap@imperial.ac.uk).

Individuals can always contact the [Union Welfare
Officer](mailto:dpwelfare@imperial.ac.uk). Additionally, members can
[lodge comments and complaints directly to the
Union](https://www.imperialcollegeunion.org/about-us/contact-us/comments-complaints).
